Hi, everyone.  
  
I just wanted to make a little repo here for the Fungal Data System project. I’m not going to post the whole thing – I do still hope to make something of it myself – but there are a few cool things here and there that I do want to share, so I’m posting them here.  
  
I also wanted to just show the flag a little bit for that project, in case somehow coming here has missed it, and to give [a link to the working demo.] (https://fdsdemo.mushroomthejournal.com/)  
  
## What is The Fungal Data System?
I’ve been working on the Fungal Data System for several years now. The core concept is a custom data store for fungal morphological data – that is, shape, color, etc – so that one can do more effective queries than current databases support. And I think I’ve done a good job on that. But the FDS also has a “whole product” problem: it’s just going to sit on the shelf unless there's a bunch of good data in it (which means it needs robust import procedures) and there’s some attractive way to make use of the data. And it would be really nice to have a convenient way of checking the data – to have it assemble a graphic mushroom from the stored descriptions so one can at least And of course developing all of these is in a feedback loop with the data store, and gives us a better idea of how good the data store’s design really is.  
  
I actually envision quite a few uses for the Fungal Data System. Once we get a ton of collections into it, it can be used in conjunction with DNA studies to give researchers an idea of the geographical range of a morphotype to which they’ve associated  given sequence. But the most obvious and potentially widespread use is undoubtedly in identifying mushrooms – and identifying mushrooms also makes for a good set of test cases for exercising the system. So the data store now resides at the center of a little ecosystem (the Greater Fungal Data System, if you will) that entails a scraper that converts a standard text description of a mushroom to JSON, which is then stored in a Mongo database. This data in turn is used to construct rectilinear tables that support a scoring function that tells you the best match for your mushroom. You can see this scoring and identification process in action at [the little demo.](https://fdsdemo.mushroomthejournal.com/)  
  
Inputting the features of the mushroom you wish to identify is a whole problem unto itself. The tl;dr is that I’ve been developing a front end that I call the Graphic Mushroom Interface. The idea is that it’s just a WYSIWYG mushroom that represents the data. It’s a twofer: it can be an input device for letting the system know what the physical mushroom you’re trying to identify looks like; an early version of it is used in the demo mentioned above. The GMI can also be an output device to represent the data in the system. In this capacity it can be used to check the data in the system, by seeing if the reassembled data looks anything like the original mushroom; and once the process is reliable it can be used to generate educational images, to let people study what different mushrooms look like.  
  
Anyway, this is all by way of setting expectations wrt what sort of code samples I’m going to post here. The project is fairly huge and sprawling, and I’m not sure how much sense a lot of the code would make unless you know what it’s doing this thing *for.* So I’m just going to post a few bits here and there, if I figure something out and thing, “Hey, this was kind of cool” and I want to share.   
  
## A Word on the databases
You may have noticed above that I have mentioned a Mongo database, and a rectilinear one (PostGreSQL). The Fungal Data System does not reside in a schema-type database structure. Now that I’m trying to write it up (a little bit) it feels a bit Pythonic to me, in that it’s much more a set of conventions than a set of rules. Mycological concepts are tokenized (in the Mongo store) and then those tokens are translated into numerical values for the scoring function, but the translation process is very flexible – different authors have used the same terms in different senses, so mycologists with an idiosyncratic outlook will end up with personalized translation tables. In any case, the tokenization and translation processes are governed much more by values in PostGres reference tables (basically like a trained model, but with a lot more transparency and explicitness) than by procedural code. The FDS-ness is in the design of the model, and the handles that the model has for working with it.   
  
There is still a lot to come. 
